okay I'm going to show you how to run a
test for total calcium hardness and the
difference between that and total
hardness itself as a measurement in your
cool water
just important on your calcium levels
within range too low and it becomes
aggressive that means that it could eat
your plaster and your decking and too
much hardness will cause scale buildup
on your tile line and also onto the
plaster itself
you
okay first you have to know that there's
between total calcium hardness which
measures a calcium level in your pool
versus total hardness which also
measures two calcium and magnesium so
these test trips will measure just your
total hardness and not just the calcium
hardness so not quite as accurate the
good for a ballpark see if you're in
range but to get a true test you're
going to need a tailor test kit that
measures just calcium hardness so
according to the total hardness test in
this pool you're looking at around 500
or so and so that's total hardness it's
not the calcium hardness like again
again I mentioned just measures your
total hardness in your pool which is
magnesium
if you don't have a tailor test kit you
can definitely get it run and your local
cool store they'll test your calcium
hardness for you they recommend it once
a month but you can pretty much tell in
your area if your water is hard or not
just by your tap and that's part of the
equation with the hardness of your pool
water is what is the water light coming
right into the pool that was known as
your fill water so you can see the range
on the test strips are very broad 150
250 a difference in range whereas the
tailor test kit calcium hardness test
width is within 10 parts per million so
it's a very accurate test compared to
this ballpark total hardness reading and
again it also measures the magnesium in
your pool so it's not quite as accurate
as the drop test
so the only effective way to lower
calcium
to drain some water down and fill it
with softer water but if you're in an
area like mine where the water is hard
coming out of the tap that may not be
practical
so what I do to control the hard water
my pool my calcium hardness levels
around 500 or so 4 to 500 and you
generally stays at I use muriatic acid
to keep the pH at 7.2 7.6 don't let it
get too high keep the alkalinity near 80
that'll keep your pool from scaling so
you can use acid to control the calcium
hardness in the water but you really
can't reverse it with the muriatic acid
just use to keep the pH and alkalinity
low so you don't have scaling in your
pool
if your hardness level is low you can
actually add calcium fluoride to bring
it up that's very easy to do this
broadcasting cool
I'm going to use the tailor kit to test
for calcium hardness and it's a reagent
creation test with the drop test that's
the most accurate way to test for
calcium hardness
okay so perform this test you're going
to actually add 20 drops of the ar-10
buffer and swirl it around and mix it up
we're going to add 5 drops of r11
and swirl that around and if you have
calcium partners it will turn pink like
that and they're going to add our 12
counting each drop and swirling it and
that will give you your calcium hardness
reading when you get to the last drop
and it turns blue go ahead and add one
more drop and it subtracted just to make
sure that is the right reading I'm going
to keep adding
so that turned blue around 440 drops
and the very high chlorine reading could
throw off the test you can add a
chlorine utilizer before you run the
calcium hardness test to counter that
and so on extremely high chlorine level
can also interfere with the test so you
can use the r7 and Chloe neutralizer you
can add a few drops in before you start
the test and that will help give you
more accurate reading if the chlorine
levels really high see a turn after
about 40 drops and add 41 to to make
sure a little bit of purple tint to it
and that's screw to the copper in the
water
I can see kicks off so
you
so fairly easy test to perform yourself
with the kid and again you can also do
the total hardness with u-kiss trips to
get a kind of a ballpark reading also
and the calcium hardness is really
important also when the water starts
getting warm that's why you'll notice
that a lot of commercial hot tubs it
really stay have a lot of scale buildup
the hotter the water is the more the
calcium doesn't dissolve in there
causing that scale buildup on the class
there
you